in 2014, the  UK Government's Local Audit and Accountability Act introduced a requirement for Parish Councils(PCs) to publish information about its opeations on a
website. 

Many councils rose enthusiastically to the challenge of advertising their community and a rich assembly of websites quickly appeared.

Sadly, however, enthusiasm has generally waned considerably since. For one thing, while developing a website is fun, maintaining it subsequently is a chore. In the case of Parish COunci sites, new information arises in a continuous stream and, once the original site developers have moved on to fresh, more exciting challenges, the job of maintenance falls to individuals with less interest in technical matters and fewer skills.

Meanwhile, the range and depth of skill required to deliver a professional website have broadened and deepened. For one thing whereas in the past it would have been sufficient to produce a site that looked good on a desktop computer, one now needs to cater for smaller-screen devices such as Apple iphones. On the other hand, the range of government requirement has steadily widened. The latest iteration has introduced a requirement for websites to be "accessible" in the sense that they are usable by individuals with limb and eyesight disaiities. These are worthy aspirations but potentially ones with significant implication for Council budgets since it is likely that many Parish Councils will opt to sub-contract the work to commercial third parties.

This writers view is that present problems are largely a result of Parish COuncil's initial enthusiasm. The job required by Government was quite simple, but most Parish Council sites go far beyond the original brief. There are other places to do this and, significantly, places are not subject to legal regulation. It would have been much better if Government had backed up the 2014 Act with a national website to which councils could simply submit the mandatory information.

Ah well. The purpose of this site is to distribute, free of charge, a framework of code which can be used to create and maintain a Parish Council website to deliver Government requirement with a minimum of cost and effort.

A sample website produced by the framework is viewable at ???? As you'll see the style is austere but effective. There is enough personalisation to convey the character of the Coucil's community but the main thrust of the site is to present a clear and simple mechanism for accessing the legally-required information. The ste is basically just a curated list of links to reference documents (pdf files). Configuration and maintenance of the site - ie the creation and maintenance of the site framework and the upload of the rerenced files - is delivered by a comprehensive site-update facility. Operation of the system thus require requires little more skill than the abiity to produce word-process douments and to turn these into pdf files. 

Meanwhile, the site generated by the update facility meets all Government requirements and works well both large and small-screen device on most web-browser platforms.

The system uses a mixture of Javascript and PHP, which means that both the website and its maintenance software will run on any device that features a web browser - Chrome, Firefox etc. Its internal design is designed explicitly to simplify initial setup. There is, for example, no database and the website structure is from a small number of text configuration elements and the reference files submitted to the system. Detailed instructions for installation and operation are included in the download package. 




