The parish council site has seen numerous incarnations but has always sought to deliver the same aims - a simple but adaptable exposition of the PC's main information-delivery responsibiities and an update mechanism that demand no special technical skills on the part of the operator - ie the Parish Clerk

However, this is an area of technology that has seen considerable, rapid change. Though the appearance of the website is little changed from its very first incarnation, the underlying mechanisms are now completely different

The very first version of the PC website used a highly unconventional approach. Starting with the view that the Clerk would always be familiar with word-procesing technology and would have a sound understanding of Windows folder and file structures, the system was designed round the idea that the "database" that defined the content and layout of the website would be derived from the folder and file structure on the CLerk's laptop.

This worked surprisingly well. A simple Java "website-generator"program read the folder and folder names and generated a website from these. New folders and file content were transmitted to the website by re-running the website-generator.

The problem was Java, however. On the one hand growing concerns for the advisability of permitting web-based software to access local data made the long-term future of Java for this type of application look uncertain. On the other hand, a growing appreciation of the flexibility of a modern html/javascript/php system working into an sql database began to look more attractive.

So the next version of the website and its maintenance system used the latter approach and immediately proved popular. The website could now use tools like bootstrap to permit the same code to operate on phones as well as laptops and desktops. The Clerk now worked through a tailored update window that provided much more "hand-holding" than the original version of the system.

There were two problems, however. The first was that all this required far more code than the Java version (which was no more than a coujple of 100 lines). We were now looking at thousands. The second was, that through inexperience, this code was not well constructed. In particular, the flexibility built into the first version (eg the ability to eeasily add a new "section" of information - eg Draft Minutes) was lost.

The need for code that was easy to maintain was further underlined when the UK Government issued new requirements for public bodies (with only partial exemption for Parish Councils) to meet new "accessibility" standards. The aim was to ensure that access to public services were not compromised by disabilities of various kinds - eg sight or limb function. Milburn PC's code was duly updated and we we now meet all accessibity requirements, but it was hard work

As an experiment, since the Covid crisis had given the developer time to improve his technical skills through a variety of other applications, it was though this might be a good opportunity to design an "open-source" version of Milburn Parish Council's software and advertise it globally. The Github framework provides a free platform for such a service. The idea was that other Parish Councils were likely to be encountering similar issues and might find this helpful. As far as is known, nobody has ever taken the slightest interest in  this, but you never know! Two versions were produced. The first, intended for use by a council with limited IT skills used conventional file-structures to avoid the need to set up a database. The second ("parishcouncils"), which is now seen as the more practical, was desiged to permit a central body (with an eye on Calc) to support an unlimited number of "client" councils. COst for paarticipating councils would be minimal.

In any event, out of this development came a code base that was now both flexible and maintainable. New sections could be added without touching the code. Likewise, the slides in the carousel are maintainable. The code also meet all accessibility requirements.Accordingly, it was decided to move the website onto the new platform.

In early May, 2021, the existing database and accumulated entries (minute/agenda pdfs etc) were downloaded) and loaded into the parishcouncils system under the cumbrianstylist.com url. Once this had been fully tested the targets for the cumbrianstylist.com and milbirnparishcouncil.com declared in controlpanel's domain tab were switched and the system became live 